hey everyone I thought I'd give you an
update on my cookie machine project so I
don't know if you saw the first video
but I basically got this carousel sort
of device that I've rigged up and each
station on the carousel is going to have
one of the ingredient components to make
a chocolate-chip cookie and the
challenge one of the biggest challenges
with this project is handling all the
different types of ingredients every
station looks pretty different because
all the ingredients have different
properties to them that require a
different dispensing method so I figure
I'll go through them briefly and then
describe what I got done over the last
few days this will be the station that
dispenses chocolate chips so the chips
will be stacked in here and as you
rotate this a specified quantity of
chocolate chips will be dispensed out
the bottom the trick is that this volume
is a little bit too big right now so
what I'm going to do is just add some
solid plastic between the fins on that
sort of butterfly valve that way when
this thing comes around it'll pick up a
smaller subset of chips but still
dispense a specified number each time
this will be the dispenser for brown
sugar brown sugar is probably one of the
most difficult to dispense ingredients
materials that I've ever seen it's
sticky it's granular it's also not very
free-flowing like it's it's it becomes
solid like if you leave it in a cup you
can actually turn the cup upside down
and it's all packed together so all
these properties make brown sugar very
difficult to deal with so I'm going to
use the same trick that I used with the
chocolate chips I'm going to sort of
pack that butterfly-valve up with more
plastic and the trick is as it rotates
around it actually has sort of like a
grinding action so if the all the brown
sugar up here is packed as this thing
turns around the fins kind of chip off a
little bit of it so as this you know it
may not get exactly the right amount but
we're going to be using the valance to
actually measure the amount of
ingredients that have come out so what I
can do is just make the volume in
between fins smaller and smaller and
just use more rotations to get enough
total volume out some of the easier to
deal with ingredients are say the sugar
so this is granular
but it's pretty free-flowing and so the
method I'm going to use for both sugar
and salt is a helical screw on hand
drill bit in this case this is a high
helix angle drill bit and is it there's
a chamber in in here that looks about
like this so when the drill bit turns
counterclockwise it pulls a little bit
of the salt in this case out and there's
a dispensing port on the bottom I'm
using tape just to hold this together
for now what I need is a little pulley
system which I've already ordered the
parts for but the motor speeds and the
volume within the drill bits and
everything have already been tested -
these work the flour I initially had
some problems with - until I found just
a small sifter that I could put in my
carousel like this so it's a really slow
motor the high gear ratio it just turns
the sifter and it dispenses a
surprisingly consistent amount of flour
per revolution of the sifter this will
be for the eggs someone asked if I was
going to do egg yolks and egg whites
separately no but that's a good idea in
this case what I'm going to do is just
beat the eggs together and put the
blended eggs into this syringe
dispensing the liquids is super easy
compared to the powders and the brown
sugar and all that stuff this will be
for the vanilla extract
Sam deals the eggs pretty much this will
be for the butter the reason I'm using a
metal syringe for the butter with this
other apparatus is that it has to be
temperature controlled and it also is
going to be experiencing much higher
pressures in the syringe so this metal
syringe was needed because I didn't want
the glass to break so that leaves two
unpopulated stations here one of them is
going to be for baking soda and the
other is going to be for a mixer which I
may or may not implement in this first
version so the idea is that the carousel
would turn around dispense an ingredient
on the scale you know turn to the next
station dispense that ingredient and
then turn to the mixer station the mixer
station would actually go down into the
into the cup and mix the ingredients
together I think for this first shot
what I'll do is just you know have the
thing a little bit more user involvement
so it'll dispense the ingredients and
then say okay mix those together and
then dispense three more ingredients and
say okay mix those together or something
but I'll see how much time I have I've
been working a bit on the firmware in
the UI and I think I'm going to use
processing org for the UI just because
it's so quick and easy
I've already got a simple GUI over there
and if I put some pressure on the scale
you can see it's already feeding the
values through the serial port into the
computer there so I'm going to come up
with a simple packetized serial protocol
and the computer will basically be
driving microcontroller it'll send
commands like you know dispense five
grams of flour and then the
microcontroller will handle the loop
between the the motor drive and the
scale and then send back in okay and
probably what will happen is you know
the target value will be five point zero
zero grams and it'll actually get five
point zero five or whatever end up
getting and so the microprocessor can
connect and send the actual value back
to the GUI so all the stations here have
been tested except for the brown sugar
and the chocolate chips and the baking
soda so once I get those straightened
out I'll be fairly confident that I can
dispense you know about the right amount
of each material and do that in a fairly
controlled manner you know with the
computer and all that stuff working I
think that'll be just fine the major
uncertainties left are the mixing like I
say it might be done by a human and the
mechanics involved with with moving this
carousel around I'm planning to attach a
grey code to the side of this white
Delrin collar here and then put a
four-channel optical reader on there and
then drive this around with just a DC
motor and implement another servo loop
in the microcontroller I don't think
that'll be too hard I think that'll
actually work out fine and seeing this
thing whip around automatically will be
impressive okay see you next time back